---
title: 'Deep Learning for Tabular data Inspired by Relational Database Management Systems'
date: 2024-10-08
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - tabular data
  - RDBMS
---

I propose research on tabular data that reflects the structure and principles of relational database management systems (RDBMS).

## (1) Multi-Table Approach

I plan to construct a deep learning framework that leverages multiple smaller tables as input, rather than relying on a single large table. This framework would mimic the internal structure of RDBMS, enabling optimal selection of necessary tables and columns to enhance efficiency. Additionally, there are nested and horizontal relationships among features in tabular data, similar to master-detail tables in RDBMS. I am interested in exploring these relationships through variable names using large language models (LLMs) or the feature values themselves.

## (2) Dynamic Tabular Data

In a hospital's Electronic Health Records (EHR) system, patient data would be continuously updated, with columns being added or values replaced unexpectedly. I am eager to develop models that effectively account for these dynamic changes.


Beyond ideas inspired by RDBMS, I believe there are several challenges we need to overcome to improve deep learning for tabular data.

- **Generalizability**: Can we train a model on dataset #1 and achieve good performance when evaluated on dataset #2? Given that the number of columns (features, variables) may differ and the characteristics of the data will vary, how can we create a model that works effectively across different datasets?

- **Learning from Subsets**: Is it possible to achieve strong evaluation performance by training only on a subset of the training dataset? How can we effectively sample from the training dataset to optimize learning?
